# JessicaKitchen.github.io

# Original CS 330 Project

# Self Assessment

Myt ime at SNHU has prepared me for many different challenges and situtions. It has alos helped me develop and strenghten my skills over the last few years. In addition to that it has also been able to shape my professional goals and prepare me for employment in the computer science field. When I first started this program I was a complete beginner when it came to programming and coding. After going through the course and learning new skills I am now confident in not only my ability to create code that functions properly but my ability to problem solve as well. There were plenty of courses I took taht discussed and taught my how to  properly debug my code. In addition to this there were multiple courses taht encourged creativity and proper 

For my capstone I decided to use my CS 330 OpenGL project for all three enhancements. The OpenGL project was created around the end of April of 2025. The goal for the project was to recreate a scene from the individuals’ daily life. The scene chosen for this specific project was a desktop setup. This included four objects that used a variety of shapes to recreate the four objects. These objects were a coffee cup, keyboard, mouse, and monitor. The scene included realistic textures, camera movement, navigation, lighting, and defining materials. These different skills and techniques were used to recreate the scene as realistically as possible. It also included code for CPU and GPU that are used to optimize the program and improve its performance. OpenGL also needed databases and libraries to run and function properly. This project not only aligned closely with my career goals of video game deveolopment but also is a great representation of the desired outcomes for all three enhancements. 

CS 330 OpenGL is a great inclusion for any ePortolio. This project is a demonstration of my creativity and technical skills especially for enhancement one. It shows my attention to detail and my ability to use standard industry tools. I chose this project since it was not only one of my favorites to work on but also a project that best demonstrated my skills in software design and engineering. The specific components of the artifact that showcase my skills are defining object materials, lighting sources, loading textures, and scene adjustments. In addition to this, I used more advanced shading techniques. All of these components work together to create a more realistic and dynamic scene. I was also able to redefine the object materials to include more variety and realistic interactions with the lighting source. In addition to this, I was able to improve the lighting sources. Originally, I included four lighting sources when my original scene only had two main sources of lighting. To improve the lighting for the enhancement I reduced the amount of lighting sources and then fixed the lighting color to match the original lighting for the scene. Another improvement I made was redefining the object’s materials. My original project had basic material definitions, so my goal was to create more realistic object materials. Now there are new materials for each color of the objects as well as materials for both of the planes used for the background. By improving the materials, it also improves how the environment interacts with the lighting sources and creates more realistic reflections and shadows.

CS 330 OpenGL project is also a good demonstration of my ability to design and test data structures and algorithms for enhancement two. It also demonstrates my attention to detail and my ability to use standard industry tools. As well as my ability to ensure my programs run smoothly and are rendered efficiently. This project best demonstrates my skills in rendering programs, testing data structures and algorithms, and improving programs’ optimization. The specific components that showcase these skills will be introducing efficient algorithms and improving data structures for better performance and scalability. As well as avoiding conditionals and using specialized shaders. I am also planning on including implementing drawing batch calls and minimizing state changes. These improvements will better optimize the GPU and CPU’s performance. I was able to review my program and determine if any conditionals were being used and if these conditionals are essential to the program’s functionality. I primarly focused on determining what can improve the program’s performance. One way it was improved was by redoing method RenderScene. Originally this method not only called the objects to be rendered but it also contained all of the code used to create each object for the scene. To fix this I decided that the RenderScene method should only render the objects to the scene. I then went on to create individual rendering methods for each object in the scene. These methods contained all of the code that is used for the object’s position, color, mesh, rotation, textures, and dimensions. This not only makes the code easier to navigate and understand but it also improves the performance of the code as well. Since it organizes the code better and reduces the amount of code the program has to read to render the scene. 

CS 330 OpenGL project is also a demonstration of my ability to design and test data structures and algorithms for enhancement three. In addition to this, it demonstrates my attention to detail and my ability to use standard industry tools. As well as my ability to ensure my programs run smoothly and are rendered efficiently. I chose this project since it is best demonstrated my skills in rendering programs, testing data structures and algorithms, and improving programs’ optimization. The specific components that showcase these skills are reviewing libraries and databases, adding in needed databases or buffers. As well as making sure the project is well organized and utilized to its fullest potential. The improvements for this enhancement were centered around ensuring that I had the necessary libraries for the project as well as the proper storage for all of my files. For my improvements I went back through my project and checked each library and made sure they were implemented properly. I also went back over my texture files and made sure they were all at the same location and that the program could read them with no problems. Finally, I rechecked each module of code and made sure they were organized and functioned as intended. In addition to this, I also checked the buffers to ensure they were being utilized properly. I did not make a lot of major improvement besides making my code more organized and efficient. Even though I have not made any drastic changes for the database enhancement. I do believe I have met most of the course outcomes I set out to achieve for all three enhancements. With the outcomes for this category being optimizing the program by evaluating its databases and buffers to improve the overall performance of the program. While being able to showcase my ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, tools, and skills in computing practices. 
